In this lecture we will be learning about the failure mechanism in our micro service system with many
interconnected services.
There and that being many critical resources both hardware and software that the system relies on.
It is important to have redundancy on each of these resources and ensure that they are highly available.
This is sometimes overlooked in Monat systems.
As for example the server or its processes have a ninety nine point nine percent uptime guarantee.
And so it is very unlikely that they will ever failed however the micro services due to the number of
hardware and software components and services chained together all of which have a very small chance
of failing.
It is much more likely for something to fail bringing down the whole system.
As an example Ive used the service registry which is a service were discussed in previous lectures that
is critical to our system as all services depend on it to locate other services in the network.
We should have a redundant service registry that must be in sync with the primary service registry.
It's also important to note that the redundant services and components should be hosted strategically.
This means that they should run on different machines so the primary service to avoid both of them going
down at the same time in case of hardware failure.
The number of redundant instances we should have used depends on how critical component is and the probability
of it failing.
If a service to request the service registry and is unable to connect it should immediately attempt
to connect to do redundant services just registry.
It is important that we log when the fail over resource has been used to be able to react and identify
where the primaries are trained.
As I mentioned earlier it's not only the services that we should make highly available but also any
resource that this system depends on.